Disclaimer: this code is poorly optimised and might eat up your ram or your liver. If you think you can improve it, please do my house is being overrun by this shit and I fear for my safety. That said,

The two programs included here let you make sprites for thee gameboy along with maps, that you can then make into an executable .gb file with the help of the GameBoy Development Kit 2020 (https://github.com/gbdk-2020/gbdk-2020)
After having created your desired art, you'll get 4 files, named map_map.c, map_map.h, map_tiles.c, and map_tiles.h. To make it into an executable, I'd suggest taking one of the examples provided in your copy of GBDK and changing the files, along with with the references in your main.c file and the Makefile file. Tutorials for GBDK can be found everywhere on the internet, but here's one that should get you started pretty quick: https://laroldsjubilantjunkyard.com/tutorials/how-to-make-a-gameboy-game/getting-started/

Before you get started with the programs, make sure you install the python modules it tells you to when it fails to run.

gbspriter.py:
This lets you make the tiles that go in your map. Each tile is 8x8, with 4 colour values. To draw, simply press keys 1-4 while mousing over desired tiles. Once result is satisfying, press the 'clip' button on the top left, and the hex value will be printed out in console for you to copy and paste. I'll explain what to do with it in a bit. If you want to load a sprite, enter the code for the tile in the text box next to the 'load' button (top right, bit hard to see), then press said button.

gbtiler.py:
This one is a bit more complicated. It lets you use the tiles you made to make a full map, that you can use as a background , foreground, middleground, ground beef for your project. The screen for the gameboy is 20x18 tiles, so it's the default value, but you can change the size of the map by editing the '20x18' textbox on the top left and then pressing the 'dimension' button (important to keep the same formatting).
The first thing you'll notice about this program is the text boxes labelled 0-31. This is how you can enter tiles into your program. The box at the complete top saying '0' is the box you want to use, 0-31. To enter a sprite, input the register you would like to change on the top, then copy and paste the tile data into it and press the 'enter' key. Now you can draw with that tile by clicking where you want. It is important to go in order, don't fill box 0 and 2 without also filling box 1. The reason it shows 32 boxes, is because the gameboy has 32kb of vram, and can only handle 32 different sprites at a time. To use more, you need to do fancy vram swapping shit, an example of which is provided to you in the 'large map' file in the examples section of you copy of GBDK 2020. However, gbtiler is nice enough to handle more than 32 tiles for you. Simply enter in another value in your desired register, select the register in the selection box at the top, and press enter. You can now change the tile you want on the fly by going over and picking the tile you want in the pop-up menu when you click on the the register (0-31) you want. Once again, it is important to stay in order. Don't fill up 2 slots in register 1 wihtout doing the same for register 0. I suggest you put register 0 as a blank tile (0x00, 0x00,...), but you do you I guess.
You know how to expand the size of the map. Once you have done so, you can move around using WASD as is tradition. You start off on the top right of the map, since that's also where the gameboy starts counting. The number on the top left (0,0) indicates you position from the left and the top.
Once you're done and satisfied with your map, simply press the 'clip' button on the top left and the program should produce your four files. REMEMBER: THERE ISN'T A LOAD FUNCTION FOR THE MAP, IF YOU WANT TO EDIT IT IN THE NEAR FUTURE, YOU SHOULD KEEP THE PROGRAM OPEN. Or I guess you could manually edit the .c files, it's really not that much of a hassle.



If you have any problems with the program, it's usually because it's very finicky, so be gentle with it and keep brute forcing it until it works as guaranteed. Otherwise, contact me at my discord qweee#0666  or email me if you want to make me feel like I'm important at qd33ee@gmail.com. You could Also check out my YouTube channel, https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCCF7XgabIdojt21e7ddPqpw

Copyright is fuck copyright. Edit the code, publish it, claim it's yours, I'd be impressed if you could make money off it but you're also allowed to do that if you want